---
title: More Private Algorithms  for DNSSEC
abbrev: More Private Algs
docname: draft-hoffman-more-private-algs-00

stand_alone: true
v: 3
updates: 4034

ipr: trust200902
kw: Internet-Draft
cat: std
consensus: true
submissionType: IETF

pi:
  toc: yes
  tocdepth: 4
  sortrefs: yes
  symrefs: yes

author:
 -
   ins: P. Hoffman
   name: Paul Hoffman
   org: ICANN
   email: paul.hoffman@icann.org

normative:
  RFC4034:

informative:

--- abstract

RFC 4034 allocates one value in the IANA registry for DNSSEC algorithm numbers for
private algorithms.
That may be too few for experimentation where multiple yet-to-be-assigned algorithms
are used.
This document assigns seven more values for this use case.

This document is currently maintained at https://github.com/paulehoffman/draft-hoffman-more-private-algs.
Issues and pull requests are welcomed.
If the document is later adopted by a working group, a new repository will likely
be created.

--- middle

# Introduction

Section A.1 of {{RFC4034}} assigns value 253 as "Private \[PRIVATEDNS\]".
Section A.1.1 describes this value:

~~~
Algorithm number 253 is reserved for private use and will never be
assigned to a specific algorithm.  The public key area in the DNSKEY
RR and the signature area in the RRSIG RR begin with a wire encoded
domain name, which MUST NOT be compressed.  The domain name indicates
the private algorithm to use, and the remainder of the public key
area is determined by that algorithm.  Entities should only use
domain names they control to designate their private algorithms.
~~~

In the coming years, it is likely that there will be experimentation with new DNSSEC signing
algorithms for post-quantum cryptography.
At the time this document is written, it is possible that there will be many such
algorithms in experimental use at the same time.
If that comes to pass, it would be useful to have a handful of private use algorithms
to use at the same time, such as for experimenting with zones that will have multiple
simultaneous signing algorithms.

This document updates {{RFC4034}} to add seven more private use algorithms that have
exactly the same properties as algorithm 253, bringing the total number of
private use algorithms that use the same format to eight.

# IANA Considerations

This document requests that IANA allocate seven additional values in the "DNS Security Algorithm Numbers" registry.

# Security Considerations

Allocating private use values does not cause any significant security considerations.

--- back
